---
title: 'Inverse Matrix'
date: 2023-08-14
permalink: /posts/2022/08/Inverse Matrix/
tags:
  - cool posts
  - category1
  - category2
---

This is a sample blog post. Lorem ipsum I can't remember the rest of lorem ipsum and don't have an internet connection right now. Testing testing testing this blog post. Blog posts are cool.



The condition a matrix has a inverse
======
This is the first question we ask about a square matrix: 
Is A invertible? We don't mean that we immediately calculate $A^{-1}$. In most problems we never compute it ! Here are six "notes" about A-l. 

1. The inverse exists if and only if elimination produces n pivots (row exchanges are allowed). Elimination solves $Ax = b$ without explicitly using the matrix $A^{-1}$. 

2. The matrix A cannot have two different inverses. Suppose $BA = I$ and also $AC= I$. Then $B = C$

3. If A is invertible, the one and only solution to $Ax = b$ is $x = A^{-1} b$.

4. (Important) Suppose there is a nonzero vector x such that Ax = 0. Then A cannot have an inverse. No matrix can bring O back to x. **If A is invertible, then Ax = 0 can only have the zero solution x = A- 10 = 0.**

5. A 2 by 2 matrix is invertible if and only if ad - be is not zero: $$
2 \text { by } 2 \text { Inverse: }\left[\begin{array}{ll}
a & b \\
c & d
\end{array}\right]^{-1}=\frac{1}{a d-b c}\left[\begin{array}{rr}
d & -b \\
-c & a
\end{array}\right] \text {. }$$
This number $ad - be$ is the determinant of $A$. A matrix is invertible if its determinant is not zero. The test for n pivots is usually decided before the determinant appears. 

6. A diagonal matrix has an inverse provided no diagonal entries are zero : $$\text { If } \quad A=\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
d_1 & & \\
& \ddots & \\
& & d_n
\end{array}\right] \text { then } A^{-1}=\left[\begin{array}{ccc}
1 / d_1 & & \\
& \ddots & \\
& & 1 / d_n
\end{array}\right] \text {. }$$



Gauss-Jordan
======
row exchanges are certainly allowed in Gauss-Jordan and doesn't change the sigh.

3rf




Aren't headings cool?
------